ICs are categorized by size according to the number of gates contained on each chip. There is no absolute
rule, but an IC having fewer than 10 or 12 gates is usually referred to as a small-scale integration (SSI) IC.
For instance, a 7404 has six inverters in a 14-pin DIP. ICs having more than 12 but fewer than 100 gates are
called medium-scale integration (MS!) !Cs; encoders and decoders are examples of MSI ICs. If there are
more than 100 gates but fewer than 1000, the IC is called a large-scale integration (LSI) JC. An IC having
more than 1000 gates is referred to as a ve,y large-scale integration (VLSI) JC. A large complex system such
as semiconductor memory or a microprocessor will be either LSI or VLSI.
ICs are further categorized according to the type of transistors used. The two basic transistor types are
bipolar and metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS). Bipolar technology is faster but requires more power, and is
generally preferred for SSI and MSI. MOS is slower, but requires much less power and also occupies a much
smaller chip area for a given function. MOS is therefore preferred for LSI and is widely used in applications
such as pocket calculators, wristwatches, hearing aids, and so on. For the moment, let's consider the overall
characteristics of each digital IC family.


OpenAI is an American artificial intelligence (AI) research laboratory consisting of the non-profit OpenAI, Inc.[4] and its for-profit subsidiary
corporation OpenAI, L.P. [5] registered in Delaware. OpenAI conducts research on artificial intelligence with the declared intention of
developing "safe and beneficial" artificial general intelligence, which it defines as "highly autonomous systems that outperform humans
at most economically valuable work"
OpenAI was founded in 2015 by Ilya Sutskever, Greg Brockman, Trevor Blackwell, Vicki Cheung, Andrej Karpathy, Durk Kingma, Jessica Livingston,
John Schulman,Pamela Vagata, and Wojciech Zaremba, with Sam Altman and Elon Musk serving as the initial board members.[7][8][9] Microsoft
 provided OpenAI LP with a $1 billion investment in 2019 and a $10 billion investment in 2023.


Pichai Sundararajan (born June 10, 1972[3][4][5]), better known as Sundar Pichai (/ˈsʊndɑːr pɪˈtʃaɪ/), is an Indian-born American business
executive.He is the chief executive officer (CEO) of Alphabet Inc. and its subsidiary Google.[8]Pichai began his career as a materials engineer.
Following a short stint at the management consulting firm McKinsey & Co., Pichai joined Google in 2004,[9] where he led the product management
and innovation efforts for a suite of Google's client software products, including Google Chrome and ChromeOS, as well as being largely
responsible for Google Drive. In addition, he went on to oversee the development of other applications such as Gmail and Google Maps.
In 2010, Pichai also announced the open-sourcing of the new video codec VP8 by Google and introduced the new video format, WebM.
The Chromebook was released in 2012. In 2013, Pichai added Android to the list of Google products that he oversaw.Pichai was selected
to become the next CEO of Google on August 10, 2015, after previously being appointed Product Chief by CEO Larry Page.
 On October 24, 2015, he stepped into the new position at the completion of the formation of Alphabet Inc., the new holding company for
the Google company family. He was appointed to the Alphabet Board of Directors in 2017.[10]
Pichai was included in Time's annual list of the 100 most influential people in 2016[11] and 2020.
